# Cleaning Data

Cut out on cubicle -- "i will always check FEC amendments, I will always check FEC amendments."
Cleaning data allows you to avoid making mistakes
Lets you take a bunch of data that could be in multitude of formats and turn it into something gorgeous!
So what should good data look like? 
  -separate fields and separate columns
  -alphabetize, sort by last name
  -states and districts need to be formatted all the same
  -Party "R" and "D" (reduces room for error)
  -no commas or spaces in numbers. You can make calculations. Leave numbers as plain as possible.
 What are some edge cases, what could I anticipate needing down the road. What if the way I'm recording my data might catch me up down the road?
 
 ALWAYS MAKE A COPY OF YOUR DATA!!!!!
 Always keep a record of what you're doing to your data. 
 Save it and save and copy, always work on the copy of it, especially if it's a link.
 The way you can do it in Excel is to do each step in a new tab. 
 
 Orig data Remove amdts Fix typos sort by score
 If you are going to work with multiple pages, you will want to save as an Excel file, not a .csv
 
 
1. Wrong-way (aka "fat") data
Select all and copy. Go to paste and go to TRANSPOSE (it will rotate the data)
Typically you want your data to be tall & skinny and not fat & wide
You also want to make sure that your have a header

2. Missing data!!
Sometimes people will just BS. 
Whenever you see a zero. You want to at least make a phone call to the peson whogave you the data to make sure it's not null or blank. Just leave it empy or put an n/a

SALARIED EMPLOYEES

I would like to put “n/a” on the blanks 

Type n/a into a cell. 
Edit copy that cell.
Select all EDIT > FIND > GO TO

SPECIAL > BLANKS

Filter then change
Marijuana lobbying data

ADVANCED find and replace 
Aka regular expressions
Aka regex
Aka misleadingly intimidating pile of garbage

^”.*”
^ new line
“ “ quote
. Anything
*as many things as exist

: “\d*”

Cheat sheet: Characters Regex Cheat sheets

When I’m doing Replace all. Manageable go through each of them
Spot check

 
 
